French Revolution

Article: “French Revolution”

The French Revolution was a period of political and societal change in France that began with the Estates General 
of 1789 and ended with the Coup of 18 Brumaire on 9 November 1799.

A financial crisis and widespread social distress contributed to the calling of the Estates General in May 1789; soon after,
representatives of the Third Estate broke away and formed a National Assembly. Events such as the Storming of the Bastille 
helped drive radical changes, including the abolition of feudalism, major shifts in the relationship between the state and 
the Church, and the issuing of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen.

After escalating political conflict and war, the monarchy was replaced by the French First Republic in 1792, 
and Louis XVI was executed in January 1793. The period known as the Reign of Terror followed under revolutionary institutions, 
ending with the Thermidorian Reaction; later instability under the Directory culminated in the 1799 coup and the establishment 
of the Consulate, with Napoleon Bonaparte as First Consul.

The Revolution resulted from multiple long-term and short-term factors, culminating in a social, economic, financial and political 
crisis in the late 1780s. Combined with resistance to reform by the ruling elite and indecisive policy by Louis XVI and 
his ministers, the result was a crisis the state was unable to manage.

Between 1715 and 1789, the French population grew from 21 to 28 million, 20% of whom lived in towns or cities, 
Paris alone having over 600,000 inhabitants. This was accompanied by a tripling in the size of the middle class,
which comprised almost 10% of the population by 1789. Despite increases in overall prosperity, its benefits were
largely restricted to the rentier and mercantile classes, while the living standards fell for wage labourers and peasant 
farmers who rented their land. Economic recession from 1785, combined with bad harvests in 1787 and 1788, 
led to high unemployment and food prices, causing a financial and political crisis.

While the state also experienced a debt crisis, the level of debt itself was not high compared with Britain's.
A significant problem was that tax rates varied widely from one region to another, were often different from the
official amounts, and were collected inconsistently. The complexity and lack of accountability caused resentment among 
all taxpayers. Attempts to simplify the system were blocked by the regional Parlements which approved financial policy. 
The resulting impasse led to the calling of the Estates General of 1789, which became radicalised by the struggle for control 
of public finances.