A sandwich is a dish typically consisting variously of meat, cheese, sauces, and vegetables used as a 
filling between slices of bread, or placed atop a slice of bread; or, more generally, any dish in which bread serves 
as a container or wrapper for another food type. The sandwich began as a portable, convenient food in the Western world,
and over time it has become prevalent worldwide. 

There has been social media debate over the precise definition of sandwich, specifically whether a hot dog or open sandwich
can be categorised as such. Other items, like hamburgers and burritos, were also considered. 

In the United States, the Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) are the responsible agencies for
protecting the definition of sandwich. The USDA uses the definition, "at least 35% cooked meat and no more than 50% bread" 
for closed sandwiches, and "at least 50% cooked meat" for open sandwiches.[4] However, the same USDA manual determines 
that burritos and fajitas are "sandwich-like" and frankfurters are "sandwich type", while stromboli is explicitly excluded.
In Britain, the British Sandwich Association defines a sandwich as "any form of bread with a filling, generally assembled cold";
a definition which includes wraps and bagels, but potentially excludes dishes assembled and served hot, such as burgers.

Sandwiches are a popular type of lunch food, taken to work, school, or picnics to be eaten as part of a packed lunch.
The bread is frequently coated with condiments such as mayonnaise or mustard to enhance its flavour and texture, but 
may be served plain ("dry"). As well as being homemade, sandwiches are also widely sold in various retail outlets and 
can be served hot or cold.[6][7] Although savoury sandwiches—such as deli meat sandwiches—are in the majority, sweet 
sandwiches—such as jam sandwiches and fluffernutters—form their own category. 

Sandwiches have been widely sold in cafes, railway stations, pubs and diners since the
invention of sliced bread in the 1920s.[34] Sandwiches kept unwrapped, drying up and edges curling,
until they were sold, were widely found in Britain until the 1970s. Cafes and buffets in railway 
stations and on trains were notorious, and the term "British Rail sandwich" was often used satirically. 